GWEN IFILL: The House of Represesome high-level deal-making this
The vote was 266 to 167 on a pacat heading off a government shut
on the national debt -- on the nIt came just a few hours after R
nominated Paul Ryan to be the neWe will have a full report on al
later in the broadcast.
Former Speaker Dennis Hastert pltoday to fraud for evading feder
laws in a hush money scheme. TheRepublican entered the plea in C
said he didn't want the FBI to kpaid $3.5 million to an unnamed
been widely reported that the mohide claims of sexual misconduct
will be sentenced in February.
In Nigeria, there's word of a drby the country's military. The a
freed 338 captives held by the Igroup Boko Haram.
"NewsHour" special correspondentis in Yola, Nigeria, and spoke w
by phone.
NICK SCHIFRIN: More than 300 prireleased from the edge of Sambis
That's in Northeastern Nigeria, now, and one of Boko Haram's fin
The Nigerian military released pof those people it released. So
and children have been taken by especially, forced to become wiv
suicide bombers. The Nigerian misays it killed about 30 fighters
weapons and ammunition from thos
Now, in the past six or seven moNigerian military has freed abou
so this isn't the first time thibut it's first time it's happene
of the Sambisa forest, and that That is Boko Haram's final headq
really the place the Nigerian mito go into in order to defeat Bo
U.S. officials now telling me thdrones flying overhead Sambisa,
being given to the Nigerian miliwill need that if they're going
own deadline of defeating Boko Hend of the year.
GWEN IFILL: Meanwhile, African uin South Sudan have laid bare ac
of war crimes, including mass kiforced cannibalism. The A.U. rep
troops committed the atrocities Nuer civilians in the capital, J
a 22-month civil war. The two sia peace agreement in August, but
continues.
Iran will attend international tat ending the four-year-long con
State television confirms ForeigMohammad Javad Zarif will lead t
delegation at tomorrow's sessionAustria. Iran has firmly backed
Bashar Assad.
And Zarif's deputy made clear tochanged.
HOSSEIN AMIR ABDOLLAHIAN, IraniaMinister (through translator): W
that the solution in Syria is onsolution. Americans and foreign
Syria have no choice but to accein Syria. Mr. Bashar Assad and t
government have the necessary retalks with insurgents who are co
a political path.
GWEN IFILL: Secretary of State Jwill also attend the Vienna talk
today the challenge is like tryi-- quote -- "a course out of hel
Back in this country, a nationalshows math and reading test scor
schools are falling or stagnant.Assessment of Educational Progre
about a third of eighth graders in math and reading. While fourt
fare slightly better -- two out proficient or above -- there is
achievement gap between white an
An Army surveillance blimp brokeMaryland today, and drifted for
landing in Pennsylvania. It floafeet for a time, as fighter jets
and its tether dragged near the power lines and causing outages.
sank back to earth after losing
In economic news, the Federal Reshort-term interest rates at rec
But policy-makers suggested a rafinally be coming in December. W
appeared to be undeterred. The Daverage gained 198 points to clo
The Nasdaq rose 65 points, and tadded 24.
And Britain's Prince Harry was iarea today, promoting programs t
troops and veterans. He visited in Virginia with first lady Mich
and second lady Jill Biden. Togewatched wheelchair basketball pl
Later, the prince, who served twAfghanistan, met with President
Oval Office.
Still to come on the "NewsHour":day on Greece's shores; what the
secretary thinks of Congress' buthe role of police in schools, t
or enforce?; and much more.
Hundreds of Syrian refugees fleeof war met another tragedy today
desperate journey to find a new in despair.
Special correspondent Malcolm Brfrom the Greek island of Lesbos.
MALCOLM BRABANT: On the port sida medical team worked franticall
a small child. This was happeninafter the boat capsized.
The doctors' efforts were in vaiof the bereaved pierced the nigh
is full of volunteers here to heand migrants. They swaddled youn
in thermal blankets, trying to w
Adult survivors were visibly traThe island's small ambulance ser
to deal with such a disaster.
Volunteer Eric Kempson:
ERIC KEMPSON, Volunteer: There'speople still in the water. And t
would say the death toll is goinhigh. And they're doing CPR on b
It's a mess. It's a mess. We havlifeguards out there. We have go
out there, helicopters out there
It was a big wooden boat, someon20 people on board. So we just d
we can and you save as many peopcan at the moment. We have got a
down here. Everyone is here. Allservices are here. We just have
best we can.
MALCOLM BRABANT: In the darknesschaos, Greek doctors and foreign
from international aid agencies could in the triage area.
These people were running away fconflict, and they took a wooden
they thought it was safer than tcraft used during summer. The pe
double their prices for a place this.
Eyewitness Iannis Costakis:
IANNIS COSTAKIS, Eyewitness (thrWe could see the vessel through
but within a matter of seconds, of it. All we could see were lif
on the surface, so we immediatelcoast guard and Frontex. And eve
boats came and they filled up wiand went back the Turkey. There
150 life jackets visible. It wasThere must be an awful lot of vi
MAN: Help here.
MALCOLM BRABANT: As the hours pamood became more ominous.
MAN: OK. Need help here.
MALCOLM BRABANT: The coast guardback out to sea to resume the fo
of searching for survivors. The calm. The afternoon winds that c
boat had died down.
A fishing boat that had joined theaded for the dock and was surr
medics. The crew had pulled at lfrom the water. Several hours ea
first light, a 35-mile-an-hour wNo fishermen were out on the wat
guard boats remained in port.
But despite the choppy seas, thebusiness was booming. The first
the day ran aground just off theshore. Local fishermen and volun
a line to the decrepit pleasure had to make sure the refugees di
and capsize the vessel.
Fisherman Panayotis Koutsos' prito help rescue the dozens of chi
PANAYOTIS KOUTSOS, Fisherman (thCan't the United Nations do some
are going to get drowned for notan outrage. These rotting boats
over from Turkey. Take a picturecan see. And the traffickers are
inside and sending them over in weather conditions.
Who is the person? Who is responcan say stop and put an end to t
taking place? It's a disgrace. Iwater day and night, and I just
these children drowning anymore.trying to help here. We're not b
on this island, Lesbos. We're trwhat we can and do our duty. It'
of humanity, but the powers thatto take a serious look at this i
it.
MALCOLM BRABANT: The rescuers fochain to pass the children to sa
Nareen Tamar from the Syrian towwas overwhelmed with having land
soil.
NAREEN TAMAR, Refugee: I'm reallglad. I'm glad we are here, fina
God. Thanks, God. And thanks forus.
MALCOLM BRABANT: Tonight, there about the number of people who p
this vessel.
Some survivors talk about the boabout 300 people, and they say t
down extremely quickly. Now, theone survivor who has talked abou
a collision about 10 minutes outTurkish coast, and that seems to
when the people smuggler was duethe boat and get onto another ve
him back to Turkey.
And there seems to have been a cthe two boats. Whatever the trut
a really cynical example of the that these traffickers perform.
For the "PBS NewsHour," I'm Malcin Lesbos.
GWEN IFILL: Now to this very busU.S. House, as lawmakers overwhe
opposition to approve that sweepdeal and Republicans, who contro
formally nominated Paul Ryan as for speaker.
Two hundred out of 247 gave him He needs 218 votes in the full H
the job.
The Wisconsin Republican emergedparty caucus this afternoon, cal
new day in the House of Represen
REP. PAUL RYAN (R), Wisconsin: Wgoing to have a House that looks
the last few years. We are goingWe are going to unify. Our party
its vision and we're going to rea vision.
GWEN IFILL: The full House will nomination tomorrow. But althoug
yesterday that the process of gebudget agreement stinks, he said
will support it.
Hours later, the House moved to agreement, averting a federal de
week and a likely government shuThe two-year package includes $8
in new spending, split evenly beand domestic programs. It also r
government's borrowing limit thr2017. The additional spending wo
in part by sales of oil from thePetroleum Reserve and by cuts in
reimbursements for hospitals and
The deal won support from many lboth sides of the aisle.
REP. TOM COLE (R), Oklahoma: It that leaves both sides unsatisfi
is a deal that avoids default, pgovernment shutdown, and adequat
our military.
REP. LOUISE SLAUGHTER (D), New YI'm glad to say, a two-year budg
that eases the burden of the damcuts, protects seniors, affirms
and credit of the United States,much-needed economic stability a
to our nation.
GWEN IFILL: Republicans in the aFreedom Caucus opposed the deal
bargain that bowed too much to Pwishes.
REP. MARK SANFORD (R), South Carsimple notion, the key to gettin
hole is quit digging, and, fundaI believe that this bill does mo
than not.
GWEN IFILL: The Senate is expectthe budget next week.
Earlier this afternoon, I sat doSecretary Jack Lew.
Secretary of Treasury Jack Lew, for joining us.
JACK LEW, U.S. Treasury Secretarbe with you, Gwen.
GWEN IFILL: As we speak this aftlooks like a vote is imminent on
deal and on budget deal that wouthe debt limit to go up.
After kicking this can down the with Congress, what changed this
a two-year deal to be on the ver
JACK LEW: Well, I think a lot oftogether.
Obviously, the fact that the debgoing to be reached on Tuesday o
and they have to act before thentheir minds on the debt limit in
way. I have been communicating won a very regular basis. It's be
closer and closer. And I think ithing that they have reached an
so that it certainly seems to befor the debt limit being raised
avoid that unnecessary self-infl
On the budget side, there have bgoing on for many years, but int
many weeks, to try and figure outhis year's funding bills. The a
one that we have supported for awhich is to relieve the across-t
in sequestration by replacing thwith a balanced mix of tax and s
The breakthrough in the last weeus to reach an agreement, where
that goal, and providing $80 bilis going to give Congress the ab
appropriations bills to meet ourneeds and our defense needs. Thi
they will be able to invest in reducation and also in our nation
I think that's what Americans wato do. It shouldn't be so hard t
moments where these agreements cAnd I hope this passes in a way
and enables Congress to get on w
GWEN IFILL: Could you have reachif it had not been for the resig
Speaker Boehner?
JACK LEW: You know, the conversagoing on before that. And I thin
approached it with an intensity create in these last couple of w
I think Congress coming to termslimit helps that they understand
real deadline. The two are separover the budget. On the debt lim
clear from the beginning, they japprove the debt limit. It's not
that they can kind of extract co
GWEN IFILL: We heard incoming spRyan say the process stinks, eve
voting for the final deal. Does to you there might be problems g
this next round of negotiations,that might be, with the new spea
JACK LEW: Well, to be clear, thito give the Congress a total amo
to spend for the next two years process. They now have to produc
December 11 to fund the governmeyear, because that's when the sh
bill expires.
I hope that they approach that wkind of spirit of compromise and
mutually acceptable outcomes, andoesn't become an occasion for t
issues that cause unnecessary cobe introduced.
GWEN IFILL: Have you spoken withRyan yet about this process?
JACK LEW: You know, I have had awith him over the course of the
of years from multiple differentwas the OMB director when he was
Committee chair. I worked with hwas chief of staff at the White
worked with him as treasury secr
And we have always been able to issues. And it won't come as a s
have very different policy viewsbut we have always been able to
respectful way and to look for awe can work together. I hope tha
continues.
GWEN IFILL: I want to talk to yoof the nuts and bolts in this bu
One of them has had to do with MB, the part of Medicare which pa
services, doctors' visits. Therethat that was going to rise, tha
would rise by 30 percent. Now itback to 15 percent.
But some people say there were sused to do this, the kinds of gi
president vetoed or spoke out agdefense policy bill.
JACK LEW: On the Medicare premiuwe had no cost of living increas
because inflation didn't hit theto trigger an adjustment, there
of roughly 30 percent of Medicarwho were going to actually see a
percent increase in their Medica
There was a bipartisan interest that out over a period of time a
the impact not be as immediate aAnd I think that's what was work
the bill. It is the kind of thinshould be able to work together
basis, and everything that is inis paid for in one -- with one o
GWEN IFILL: Not a gimmick to borto do it?
JACK LEW: Well, I think if you lsavings in the bill overall, the
spending reductions and some taxmeasures.
GWEN IFILL: There are no taxes ithis deal, as the president said
have to be.
JACK LEW: Well, there will be recome from our enforcing the exis
more effectively.
On the spending side, there are of real savings provisions. As i
agreement, you know, nobody likeoffsets in a budget agreement. S
be some criticism over the cominthink that we will focus not so
or not they're real, but with sowhy did you get the savings here
GWEN IFILL: Is cutting benefits a backdoor way of decreasing adv
a patient?
JACK LEW: There are no beneficiathis package. You know, sensible
reforms that have reimbursementsthat reflects best practice, bes
of what costs are, that's a good
So I think that what we have putin this package is a fair and ba
In terms of the Medicare provisiit's a good thing that we're goi
something that would have been vexplain to people, their Medicar
going up 50 percent because inflgo up.
GWEN IFILL: Is it fiscally soundwhat, $6.5 billion by releasing
Strategic Petroleum Reserve?
JACK LEW: Well, the Strategic Peis an important national asset.
old asset. It's an asset that wadecades ago, and it actually nee
million dollars of improvements be as useful and usable as it sh
Part of this agreement will modeStrategic Petroleum Reserve, so
get access to it when we need itreliable way. And we produce qui
domestic energy today than when the Strategic Petroleum Reserve
place.
And I think if you look at this in light of our national securit
a very important step forward.
GWEN IFILL: Short-term, you havedebt ceiling crisis and another
shutdown crisis. Long-term, withreforming entitlements or someho
spending on that, are we going tat the same place again?
JACK LEW: You know, Gwen, the desometimes thought of as spending
The debt limit actually doesn't All it does is, it gives us the
pay for the bills that have beento by prior acts of Congress. So
that the debt limit would be useto control spending is just fund
wrong. You have to make those debefore you hit the debt limit.
And we clearly have challenges obut for the next 10 years, we're
a budget where the deficit as a of GDP has been brought under co
been brought down to roughly 2.5our economy. It was at roughly 1
of our economy.
There is more work to do as we glong-term, into the retirement o
boom and other things that we knthe horizon in terms of full imp
is not an immediate crisis.
Right now, if you ask me, the imin our country is our failure to
today. And that's why I think thagreement is so important. It do
we need to do. So, I hope Congresome more things, the Export-Imp
finishing work on infrastructure
But this is an important foundatwounds are the thing we ought to
assure the country that we avoidvery important accomplishment, b
alternative would have been real
GWEN IFILL: Treasury Secretary Jyou very much.
JACK LEW: Great to be with you,
GWEN IFILL: Stay with us.
Coming up on the "NewsHour": whybiggest tech companies aren't ma
an oil boom boosts racial diversa cappella group tops the charts
Now: the national conversation hpolice, their role in schools an
with African-American students e
Yet another viral video has reigdebate, prompted by cell phone f
a South Carolina sheriff's deputa teenager accused of being disr
deputy was working as a school rat Columbia's Spring Valley High
morning, that officer, Deputy Bewas fired.
His commander, Richland County SLott, says the maneuver he used
protocols, but the sheriff also the schools to reassess their re
police officers to handle discip
LEON LOTT, Richland County, SoutSheriff: Well, of course, we're
this as a learning opportunity fus. We will take what he did and
that he made. We will make sure our deputies who are in the scho
all the deputies throughout the department learn from that, and
there -- you have to do things dand not like he did.
We're also going to talk very clthe school districts and making
they understand that when they cwe're going to take a law enforc
They're there to take administraAnd if they want us to take a la
action, then we will do that, budon't want us, then they don't n
us for that.
GWEN IFILL: For a closer look atand enforcement in schools, we t
Ferriss, investigative reporter for Public Integrity. She's writ
treatment of students by police justice system, and Shaun Harper
professor and executive directorfor the Study of Race and Equity
at the University of Pennsylvani
Welcome to you both.
This was clearly a shocking inciis something that nobody can arg
it rare or was it typical, Susan
SUSAN FERRISS, Center for PublicWell, I don't think we really kn
it's so hard to get documents abthat happen in school and arrest
But we do know that, in some jurthere are quite a few arrests of
There's national data that we haat the Center for Public Integri
that in the 2011/'12 school yearan average of six for every 1,00
who were referred to police fromWe don't know what those were fo
The data doesn't tell that, but down in some places to get polic
or school records, you get a betand sometimes there are incident
are manhandled by police, handcuand put into the juvenile justic
GWEN IFILL: Shaun Harper, six ouat first blush doesn't sound lik
do the numbers tell you?
SHAUN HARPER, Executive Directorthe Study of Race and Equity in
University of Pennsylvania: Welltell us that at Spring Valley Hi
that there is a discipline probl
So I think that what we saw on tjust a snapshot of a larger set
issues around discipline. So, foblack students are just about ha
student body at that particular but yet there are more than 77 p
students who were suspended fromschool in a single academic scho
is part of a national phenomenon
We at the Center for the Study oEquity in Education recently pub
that focused on the disproportioof suspension and expulsion on b
in 13 Southern states. And, Gwenthat, of the 1.2 million black s
were suspended nationally, 55 pesuspensions occurred in school d
in the 13 Southern states, incluCarolina.
GWEN IFILL: Susan Ferriss, let'sthe whole idea of having police
You heard what the sheriff had tCarolina. What is the purpose? W
reason -- what is the reasoning armed officers on site?
SUSAN FERRISS: I think there's areasons. One, I think, most obvi
is fear of school shootings and
And after a school shooting, thea request locally to add more po
also, going back to the '80s andthe growth of security guards an
of fear of violence among studen
I don't think that people bargaigetting deeply involved in what
used to consider essentially dis
GWEN IFILL: Shaun Harper, let meadvocate, because I have seen an
online today where the students the principal, where the -- wher
felt like they had to protect --means to protect themselves agai
students.
How did this, or has this gotteneither way?
SHAUN HARPER: Well, one thing thhave at our disposal are the vid
footage. Right?
So I'm not sure that there has bin or even a decrease in the num
such as the ones that we have sevideos, but, just like policing
communities and in our larger sowe have dash-cams and we have pe
cell phones, cell phone cameras,you know, exposed to the world t
that are happening.
So I don't know that I'm able toone way or another about, you kn
know, violence against teachers leaders, you know, is really, yo
big problem. What I can say, thois that the officer who was fire
assaulted that young lady, and Ithat there was someone there wit
camera to capture it.
GWEN IFILL: Let me ask you anothwhile you're on that point, whic
do we know that this is race thathis? You talked about the dispa
numbers, but what drives that?
SHAUN HARPER: Sure.
I think that -- and our researchclear that, you know, there are
that many educators and school aand perhaps even school resource
have about young black children,violent, we're unruly.
Well, I'm not a child anymore, b-- just that they're young crimi
consumed for almost all of our lknow, these messages about who y
people are, so those same messagway into schools. And, you know,
and tragically even, you know, ykids are often, you know, severe
harshly penalized for the same kthat young white children do.
I'm pretty sure that there is a boy in a class somewhere in Amer
his cell phone out on the same dyoung lady was attacked, and the
put your cell phone away, and heyet, when that young lady, becau
right, you know, that engenders response that is unequivocally r
GWEN IFILL: So, Susan Ferriss, wthe training for the officers or
resource officers or the discipleven teachers, why isn't that ta
or is it taken into account in t
SUSAN FERRISS: There is really nstandard for that. It's almost d
There are other concerns about tthat police officers should have
go into schools because of the llarge from proportion of special
also that are getting referred tto courts.
When we did our data analysis, wthere were 14 percent of student
States who had special needs, bu-- but 26 percent of those refer
were special needs students.
I will give you an example of whin Virginia. Virginia was the to
we found when we analyzed this dthree times what the national av
We looked at some cases, includiof an 11-year-old boy with autis
He was first cited by an officerresource officer, for kicking a
during a bad moment he was havinprincipal's office.
The school resource officer decidown to the juvenile court and f
for disorderly conduct. Later onwalked out of class without perm
was having trouble in his class.was told to go get him by the sc
When the officer went to get him-- the boy didn't comply with an
go to the office.
The officer grabbed him, and theThe boy ended up charged with fe
on a police officer, at 11.
GWEN IFILL: So, a lot of this --this has to decide whether -- wh
is disciplining, who decides whaand whether it's a behavior or a
Shaun Harper, University of PennSusan Ferriss from the Center fo
thank you both very much.
SUSAN FERRISS: Thank you.
SHAUN HARPER: Thank you, Gwen.
GWEN IFILL: This has been a busyweeks for some of America's bigg
Many have been releasing their pFor some, the time has come to f
to reach a larger audience, earnand stay relevant to an ever-cha
Hari Sreenivasan, in our New Yorhas that story.
HARI SREENIVASAN: If you look atfeed in the technology section,
plenty of news about Apple earniof dollars off of iPhones and ot
But other big names, particularland Yahoo!, are trying to adjust
Yahoo!'s chief executive, Marissshe will soon launch a plan to s
her company, which now finds itsGoogle for some search and adver
Over at Twitter, there's a new pJack Dorsey. He's a co-founder o
and charged with broadening Twitat a time when Snapchat and othe
rising.
Jon Kelly is a contributing editFair" who covers this sector, jo
So, let's start with Twitter firthere's almost this Jobsian myth
about the founder coming back tocompany, to take it to the new h
where is Twitter, and why has itto have fallen out of favor?
JON KELLY, Contributing Editor, Well, there certainly is a Jobsi
And, in part, that's because Dorwant to promote that sort of myt
for very obvious reasons. But Twfrom the same sort of problem th
has. It was a hot company in itsit's struggling to recapture tha
to satisfy the expectations of iwho expect that it will.
HARI SREENIVASAN: And it's not aIt's a 10-year-old company. Righ
when you start to think of 10-yeyou think of like, wow, Facebook
taken off in this almost same am
JON KELLY: No, it's true. It's vIn the modern tech landscape, a
an old company is 10 years old.
So Twitter at year 10 is trying the growth that it experienced i
years in the public market. And an impossible job as it looks fo
and it looks for new audiences afor new ways to create revenue s
of new products, like Moments, wrecently unveiled.
It's possible that Twitter may bcompany. It's also possible that
company.
HARI SREENIVASAN: There was a faarticle just a few days talking
still used by the "ists," the joand the activists, right, but no
JON KELLY: Yes, Right.
HARI SREENIVASAN: Lots of peopleTwitter, but they don't seem to
And so I guess Moments is an oppthem or trying to capture those
JON KELLY: Well, Twitter's real itself to its role during the Ar
which I think made it a truly inforce for democracy.
It was what a Silicon Valley comto be. It hoped to change the wo
it a better place. Now people fiis kind of cumbersome and tricky
a place for people to communicathard to bring in new users when
to them essentially, you have tofollow hundreds if not thousands
to get live news.
So, Moments hopes to reclaim Twiin that universe and in the news
to play a bit of catchup to whatdid. And they seem to think that
some heat there and some opportuindeed they're already trying to
against this.
So, clearly, they see this as a their next year, and if not the
three years in catching up reven
HARI SREENIVASAN: Speaking of renot a small company, not a small
revenue. What, is it a billion dso?
Compare that, though, in the eyeshareholders, Apple and the mass
of cash that they're sitting on,Marissa Mayer's report card now?
have given her a pretty long kintime and said, fine, here's a ch
buy a bunch of companies, if thathink it's going to take.
But Yahoo! hasn't performed the thought that it would.
JON KELLY: Well, in a funny way,me of Dorsey. She's somebody who
perhaps an impossible job. Yahooa first-generation Internet comp
of age in the early '90s. How mcompanies still exist? Amazon, e
others are still around.
So, it's not surprising that Yahback toward its glory days. Now,
of Mayer was seen as this almostopportunity. Her first day on th
was literally greeted with ShepaObama hope posters with her face
HARI SREENIVASAN: And you can godown after that.
(LAUGHTER)
JON KELLY: No, I know. It's tougpresident.
But I think that they felt she acould deliver a transformative p
own version of an iPod, their owof some sort of Jobsian fantasy
life that would transform the coyou know what? It's very, very h
that.
And, indeed, Mayer had this threcover, where Alibaba, which they
percent stake in, was going to gSo, she had three years in which
and roll out some hot product. Ahappened.
And in January, the Alibaba spinand then Yahoo! is truly wearing
HARI SREENIVASAN: On its own.
JON KELLY: It's on its own.
It does earn revenue of about $1quarter. That's about what it hi
most recent quarter. And there amany companies that would love t
revenue, but not in the Valley.
HARI SREENIVASAN: So, the shift emphasized mobile when she came
to make Yahoo! much more mobile-because the world has moved to t
and is not as P.C.-centric or asas we used to be.
JON KELLY: Yes. Right.
HARI SREENIVASAN: Right? So, hasShe's also made some big acquisi
JON KELLY: Right.
So, Yahoo! was, in all fairness Mayer, nowhere on mobile when sh
in 2012. And that's a scary propwhen you think about the billion
revenue that Yahoo! earned this it to Apple, which essentially c
smartphone, and made $50 billionand you get a sense of where peo
And, indeed, Twitter, which is fcatching up to Snapchat and What
-- all of its mission is attempton to the phone in front of you.
more than half of the audience i
And that's where Mayer has been she's tried to be as prodigious
in creating new products. But whYahoo! Mail didn't even have a f
application on the smartphone.
So, it's very, very difficult totheir long-term expectations are
HARI SREENIVASAN: All right, Jon"Vanity Fair," thanks so much fo
us.
JON KELLY: Thank you.
GWEN IFILL: The oil boom in the of the U.S. has changed not only
landscape, but the racial landscthat have historically been home
any, people of color are suddenlmore diverse.
Leigh Paterson of Inside Energy,media reporting project, has the
how that's changing communities.
(LAUGHTER)
RAY STEWART, Wyoming: You just kthe face.
GIRL: Sorry.
LEIGH PATERSON: As young man, Ra(ph) never thought in a million
end up in a remote Wyoming energwith his daughter in the park. B
parents moved to Gillette for wo
RAY STEWART: They told me about as far as job and the community
so I pretty much came running, l
LEIGH PATERSON: Running from Shrfive years ago
STEVE MARSH, Wyoming: Ready, bigtwo, three.
LEIGH PATERSON: His friend Stevemoved from Chicago in 2008. Both
transition from diverse urban arrural West wasn't easy.
STEVE MARSH: I had a lot of peopI touch your hair?
RAY STEWART: Yes, it happens a l
STEVE MARSH: I have never seen abefore. Can I touch your hair?
LEIGH PATERSON: They got awkwardand plenty of stares. But when I
they had a tough time here becaurace:
STEVE MARSH: Ignorance is everywbeen here for quite awhile, so y
adjust and adapt. But I think itstronger person for it, you know
LEIGH PATERSON: But like so manytwo moved here for one reason: t
And jobs in oil and gas pay pret
According to the Bureau of Laborso far this year, these workers
have made an average of around $In the aftermath of the recessio
of pay attracted workers of manyraces and ethnicities to oil boo
West.
Wyoming is the least populated scountry, and one of the whitest,
could be slowly changing. Since state's African-American populat
doubled.
WENLIN LIU, Economist: That's Wypopulation since 1870.
LEIGH PATERSON: Economist WenlinWyoming is not unique in the sha
of its overall African-American He's seeing this new demographic
over the West.
WENLIN LIU: Montana, North DakotWyoming, Idaho, there's actually
LEIGH PATERSON: According to cenbetween 2010 and 2014, these sta
had some of the fastest growing populations in the entire countr
WENLIN LIU: I think one of the rhas something to do with employm
LEIGH PATERSON: Nowhere is that than in the oil and gas boom sta
Dakota. The unemployment rate he2.9 percent. That's the second l
country.
That's partially thanks to the fsurge in shale oil production. W
from all over not just to work ibut also in the industries that
to support it. The diversity of is reflected in the student body
City Elementary. This boomtown skids from around 20 different co
since 2010, the number of studentripled.
SELAM AHMED, Teacher: Not whoeve
LEIGH PATERSON: Selam Ahmed teaclearning.
SELAM AHMED: A majority of my kionly Spanish. I have some kids f
I have some kids from Kurdistan.kids from Pakistan.
LEIGH PATERSON: Ahmed himself waHe emigrated from Kurdistan to N
in 1992.
SELAM AHMED: Here in Watford Citago, I think it was mainly just
people here. But ever since the we have seen -- I have seen from
Honduras, from Asia.
CASSANDRA LONGBRAKE, Teacher: Giif you know what you're supposed
LEIGH PATERSON: Cassandra Longbrsecond grade here. She says many
parents came here for work.
But the plummeting price of oil Dakota hard. Those plentiful job
a sure thing. So far in this yeahas lost over 5,000 jobs in mini
gas. That's a 16 percent drop.
CASSANDRA LONGBRAKE: There is stdoor that we see where people ar
The prices of oil are going downscared of their jobs, or maybe t
laid off, and they are starting I have had have a few students t
they have enrolled in school, anthey're gone.
LEIGH PATERSON: Living and workieconomy can be difficult. But th
necessarily mean workers will le
According to census data, over tyears, the number of young Afric
children in Wyoming has dramaticby over 40 percent. The number o
has remained steady. And once yoit's harder to move.
STEVE MARSH: I have my family, amost of my time with them.
RAY STEWART: I like the communitlike the jobs here. I met my wif
that I'm here, this is home.
LEIGH PATERSON: Wyoming is now h8,000 African-Americans. But due
low overall population, the effesmall number of newcomers can me
For the "PBS NewsHour," I'm Leigin Gillette, Wyoming.
GWEN IFILL: A capella music longmainstream, but this week, it's
to the top of the Billboard 200 How did that happen?
Jeffrey Brown has the story of P
KIRSTIN MALDONADO, Pentatonix: I
SCOTT HOYING, Pentatonix: I'm Sc
MITCH GRASSI, Pentatonix: I'm Mi
KEVIN OLUSOLA, Pentatonix: I'm K
AVI KAPLAN, Pentatonix: I'm Avi.
JEFFREY BROWN: Together, they ara group aiming to ride the a cap
into pop stardom.
SCOTT HOYING: We never thought, we be the best a cappella group?
thought, like, how can we competSwift and Rihanna? Like, how we
JEFFREY BROWN: Oh, really, that
(CROSSTALK)
SCOTT HOYING: Exactly, yes.
JEFFREY BROWN: They first gained2011 with an appearance on NBC's
show "The Sing-Off," then, with of covers of top 40 hits, found
to a large, loyal audience throu
Next, they turned to a more tradroute, making albums and selling
two million.
And their Christmas album at onemegastar Taylor Swift's for numb
2014. Along the way, they won a for best arrangement and appeare
"Pitch Perfect 2."
KIRSTIN MALDONADO: I think it's too to see people's perspectives
of music change. Like, with "Gleout initially -- I remember, "Gl
when we were seniors in high schwere like in show choir and seni
like, oh, yes, this is awesome. cool. We did it. And so that...
(CROSSTALK)
JEFFREY BROWN: Did you say, thiscould do this right away?
KIRSTIN MALDONADO: No. Literallypilot came out for "Glee," I thi
a watching party or something. Wseniors, and everyone all of a s
show choir were so excited. We wthis show is awesome. It's so co
exactly us.
SCOTT HOYING: It was essentiallyalready doing.
KIRSTIN MALDONADO: Yes.
So I think that really opened uplike different chapter of music.
JEFFREY BROWN: Kirstin Maldonadoand Mitch Grassi first met as hi
students in Arlington, Texas.
MITCH GRASSI: We originally joinfor an a cappella trio for a rad
in Texas that we lost. But...
(LAUGHTER)
JEFFREY BROWN: And the rest is h
MITCH GRASSI: And the rest is hiI remember one instance where we
and rehearsing and we called a cinto the room. And we were like,
we need to like -- we need your is this good? Should we even ent
And they were like -- after we swere like, oh, my gosh, this is
you guys have truly something sp
JEFFREY BROWN: Group members, alcame to this with music lessons
experience as kids, believe a bia cappella's appeal is it back-t
very different from most of toda
Kevin Olusola and Avi Kaplan, whthree original friends later on,
KEVIN OLUSOLA: We live in a socimusic is very, very overproduced
JEFFREY BROWN: Overproduced?
KEVIN OLUSOLA: In a sense. Thereelectronics. I mean, obviously,
electronics sound, as we do too.there's there's a lot of people
of want a more organic sound.
And so we think that we can provthis kind of music industry that
We can kind of be that solace fosay, oh, I don't want to listen
of electronic, overproduced sounto listen to something a little
and pure. And that is kind of hothat void in this industry.
AVI KAPLAN: People just that wanthat is just kind of a little mo
And we...
JEFFREY BROWN: Humble?
AVI KAPLAN: Yes.
JEFFREY BROWN: I mean, you are oYou're sort of -- and I have see
And it's like -- it's fun and it-- it's loud, in a sense.
AVI KAPLAN: Yes, it is loud in awe do, do the flashy type of thi
the end of the day, we're just 2singing choir music. You know wh
And we just made it a different
So, it's really just kind of takto the most organic form of musi
coming straight from us. We are you know? And we see ourselves a
a band. We just happen to use ou
JEFFREY BROWN: You can travel mo
SCOTT HOYING: You're right.
(LAUGHTER)
KIRSTIN MALDONADO: Right.
JEFFREY BROWN: How does it work?got a demonstration.
SCOTT HOYING: We're most inspirethe groove, the beat, or at leas
what inspires me. And so we willKevin. And then we will add the
So we will have core progressionwe have two background parts. An
just lay the solo on top.
(SINGING)
JEFFREY BROWN: With their newly the group is trying something ne
and performing their own songs.
SCOTT HOYING: We wanted to show We, like, all have very differen
music. Like, we're so eclectic ido. And we wanted to show that.
Before, we did covers, and -- buelse's song and that's someone e
And now we're telling stories aband about what we love to do and
as a band. And that's really coo
I feel like, especially in our lit's going to be so fun singing
and seeing people sing our words
JEFFREY BROWN: I'm thinking thatthere's like another YouTube sen
KIRSTIN MALDONADO: Oh, yes.
SCOTT HOYING: Oh, yes, totally.
JEFFREY BROWN: Yes. Yes. Everythwent viral, this went viral, thi
How do you avoid just being a YoHow do you sustain that?
MITCH GRASSI: I feel like we're that right now.
(CROSSTALK)
SCOTT HOYING: We're in that tranright now.
JEFFREY BROWN: Are you all in thlong haul?
MITCH GRASSI: Yes.
KEVIN OLUSOLA: Absolutely.
SCOTT HOYING: Absolutely.
KEVIN OLUSOLA: Yes, we want to min the music industry.
JEFFREY BROWN: They plan to contthat mark when they release thei
album later this year.
In New York City with PentatonixBrown for the "PBS NewsHour."
GWEN IFILL: And now to our "Newsof the day, something that caugh
which might be of interest to yo
A NASA spacecraft today flew intcoming off one of Saturn's moons
To figure out whether that moon call hydrothermal vents that cou
life. This NASA video explains tbehind the theories.
NARRATOR: Enceladus boasts an icbarren landscape riddled with de
dubbed tiger stripes.
Underneath its spicy exterior tuocean, heated in part by tidal f
Saturn and another moon, Dione, vents expelling water at, at lea
Fahrenheit. Plumes of water vapoparticles jettison from its surf
spouts.
Cassini will be soaring through at the moon's south pole, only 3
the surface. However, the plumesthan just gas and water. Samples
they also contain many of the buessential to Earthlike life. Thi
to the exciting possibility thatsimilar to those that thrive in
oceans near volcanic vents exudidioxide and hydrogen sulfide mig
Enceladus.
Although it is still to early tohow complex potential Enceladus
could be, scientists speculate tvery least, microbial life is a
GWEN IFILL: NASA's Cassini spacebeen orbiting Saturn since 2004
continue to send back informatioplanet and its moons.
On the "NewsHour" online: PhotogBennett's new project is based o
that people are more than their even convicted murders. The form
defense attorney is documenting of women convicted of murder who
to rebuild their lives after prisee a photo gallery of those por
our home page, PBS.org/NewsHour.
And that's the "NewsHour" for toGwen Ifill.
Join us online and again here toFor all of us here at the "PBS N
thank you, and good night.